========================================================================
 System: Vertrauen
   Area: General
   Date: 05-27-15 06:22
   From: Kevinl
     To: All
   Subj: Qodem in public domain
------------------------------------------------------------------------
A month ago I started working on qodem again, with the goal of taking
it from the barely-working 1.0alpha to a solid reliable 1.0beta
release.

This is after a very long three-year gap in development, driven by
multiple work-related moves in my meatspace life.  This is the longest
such gap but certainly not the first: there have been many gaps
spanning from 6 to 18 months since I started qodem in 2003.  It is
time for me to recognize that the unusual events in my life between
2003-2006 that supported qodem's development are unlikely to happen
again.  So I have decided to do several things for qodem and the wider
BBS / command line terminal community:

1. I am paying off nearly all of qodem's technical debt.  The code
   base has gone through a monstrous update including code style,
   internal documentation, cleaning up loose ends, and performing most
   of the big refactorings that I have been putting off.  The new code
   base is much easier to read and (crossing fingers) easier to
   maintain for the long haul.

2. I have made Windows a top priority.  The 1.0beta will feature full
   feature parity between Windows and Linux (including serial ports)
   and a Windows installer that will include the most recent Internet
   BBS list.  I am using Borland 5.02 for now, but will also verify
   that the code will work with Visual C++ 6.0.  The goal is to work
   with all versions of Windows since Windows 95.

3. As of yesterday, May 26, 2015, the qodem code base has been
   dedicated to the public domain.  (CC0 for those jurisdictions that
   don't recognize public domain.)  This is as "free" as one can make
   anything: anyone who wants to make commercial closed-source
   products out of this code is now legally free to do so.

The qodem github repository is here: https://github.com/klamonte/qodem

If you are a developer who finds something interesting and I didn't
document it well enough to figure out quickly, please let me know and
I will try to do better.

The 1.0beta is still another 4-8 weeks out, but it is on the way.  I
have about a dozen real bugs to fix, a revert back to cryptlib, a new
autoconf build system (with corresponding updates for the deb and rpm
builds), and a few other minor things.

The one thing it will not have is the ability to answer the phone for
host mode. If someone out there has an ssh-accessible landline and
modem I could test with, I could probably get that in.  qodem 1.0beta
would then be a complete superset of Qmodem 5.0 (well, scripts are
different but that is by design).

 - Kevin Lamonte

... MultiMail, the new multi-platform, multi-format offline reader!
--- MultiMail/Linux v0.49

